Planned Fitness
===============

<h1>Problem Statement</h1>

 Workout websites are not providing users with a friendly all-in-one experience to track progress, compare and create workouts, and utilize/build playlists. Many times, the gym can be a confusing place without having a game plan when you walk through the doors. No plan means roaming around which in turn means little to no progress.

 Our solution is to create a convenient way for users to create workouts before they start using a drag and drop interactive calendar. In addition, motivation seems to stem from music choices which is why there will be an area to share playlists with other people or create ones of their own. Finally, tracking progress allows a person to build upon what they've already developed from entering their own data and viewing it in our charts. The main idea behind this is to provide a complete experience for users, from beginners all the way to workout fanatics, that is right in front of you.

Goals
1. Interactive Calendar to create workouts and compare exercises to previous workouts (drag and drop)
2. Exercise library
3. Track progress with charts/graphs.
4. Area to share workout music and playlists for others
 
<h2>Social Context</h2>

	In today’s day and age, convenience is the epitome in developing new products. One goal is on the developer’s mind, how can this be made better to benefit the lives of people who use it? This has been seen in ways we communicate with one another, better ways to organize ourselves, and keep track of our hectic schedules. In modern society there exist replacements for pre-existing, obsolete ways for performing certain tasks. Looking back, you can see how these improvements have made for an easier way of living. With this being said, the gym is a place where many things do not change. No, this is not leading to a device that works out for you, but rather an easier way to keep track of all your hard work. 
	
	Today, gym-goers across the world have three ways of organizing their workouts and recording every grueling exercise. These ways are either on a device such as a smartphone, on paper, or for the very lucky few, by memory. Now it is known that memory is by far the least effective route to recording workouts. The confidence of actually remembering a workout routine is present right after the gym is in the rear view mirror for the day, but quickly fades when the next workout is about to begin. The number of repetitions for each set, the time it took you, the amount of weight, or even the exercises becomes a more daunting task to remember as time progresses. This is why many people have resorted to the paper and pen method. Paper has been the long running standard to recording hours at the gym. It is simple and effective, but there are flaws. It becomes slightly irritating when you have to look back through sheets of paper in either a book or loose leaf to find the exact workout and have comparison with what your plan for now will be. In addition, the risk always exists of either losing your records or accidentally ruining them. From experience, it is known that paper and pen are socially accepted in a gym environment and the nod of approval from others follows. However, it is preferable to carry less than needed and we already rely on our smartphones for music so why not integrate the two. 
	
	The new generation has begun utilizing the capabilities of smartphones in order to keep track of their workouts. Now to previous generations, a young kid sitting on their phone just makes their blood boil because of the association with texting. However, a shift is on its way and Planned-Fitness.com is the catalyst.
	
	With the Planned Fitness website, we have digitized the utilities of keeping fitness in check. Our website includes a calendar, a list of workouts, instructional videos, music playlists, a workout tracker, and progress reports. The website is usable to the most experienced gym goers and people new to the gym. It can completely erase the traditional way of keeping track of workouts. Working out and keeping up with your progress will be paperless with our website.
	
	Most of the sharing concepts of tracking workouts in the gym are still intact and improved with our website. Having an account to use our services would allow people to show each other their workout regiments and progress just like traditional workout journals. With the many different features available in our website, people are able to share, through word of mouth or through social media, the different workout regiments, favorite workout music, and fitness progress to friends and family.
	
	As for creativity, just like how workout journals give the writer the freedom to set their own regiments, the Planned Fitness website also allows users to do the same functionality. We give the users a list of workouts along with a tutorial on how to perform the workouts properly. The users are free to click and drag their ideal workouts of the day in their calendar and view them later on. As for future improvements, we would like to create a way for users to share workouts in which users could send each other workout menus and the recipient could click and drag the workout to their calendars. This future improvement would allow a better communication between the coaches to their athletes, personal trainers to their customers, and much more. However, as a disclaimer, we do not condone using our website as a replacement to face-to-face interaction with personal trainers and coaches. We intend the users to use our website as tool to improve their fitness with better planning.
